README.md, before:

﻿# Mongez

This project aims to make using Laravel framework more organized and extensible.

# Table of contents

- [Mongez](#mongez)
- [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Configurations](#configurations)
  - [Translatable](#translatable)
  - [Change Log](#change-log)
- [Documentation](#documentation)

# Requirements

- Laravel `>=5.6`

# Installation

Run the following Command in your cli.

`composer require hassanzohdy/mongez`

# Configurations

Once its done run the following command to create the `config/mongez.php` file.

`php artisan vendor:publish --provider="HZ\Illuminate\Mongez\Providers\MongezServiceProvider"`

## Translatable

```php
<?php 
use HZ\Illuminate\Mongez\Translation\Traits\Translatable;

class MyClass 
{
  use Translatable;

  public function index()
  {
    $this->transUsers('users.name'); // will translate from `Users` module and `users` file and the keyword is `name
    $this->transUsers('usersGroups.permissions'); // will translate from `Users` module and `usersGroups` file and the keyword is `permissions
  }
}

```

## Change Log

- 2.23.4 (22 Oct 2022)
  - Fixed defining the class namespace of `UTCDateTime` in `functions.php` file.
- 2.23.3 (22 Oct 2022)
  - Fixed collectables to return proper array syntax instead of objects.
- 2.22.2 (28 Aug 2022)
  - Fixed `ARRAYABLE_DATA` on listing as it is encoded to json.
- 2.22.1 (28 Aug 2022)
  - `RepositoryManager.wrapMany` will return empty array without passing the collection to the resource if teh given array|collection is empty.
- 2.22.0 (28 Aug 2022)
  - `config/mongez.php` config
  - Changed `misc` key to `date`.
  - Changed `CarbonImmutable` to `immutable` under `date` key.
  - Added `week_starts_at` and defaults to `Saturday`.
  - Added `week_ends_at` and defaults to `Friday`.
- 2.21.0 (27 Aug 2022)
  - Added `getPaginationInfo` in the repository manager.
  - `getPaginateInfo` now is deprecated and will be removed in **V3.0**.
  - Added `first` method to return the first matched element, takes the same array options as `listModels` and return one model.
- 2.20.0 (27 Aug 2022)
  - Added `saveActionType` property to the repository, it can be used in `setData`, and its value will depend on the current action, `static::CREATE_ACTION` | `static::UPDATE_ACTION` | `static::PATCH_ACTION`.
- 2.18.0 (17 Aug 2022)
  - Added `date_response` to format the given date to `timestamp` `humanTime` `text` and `format` outputs.
  - Added `localized_date` to convert the given date into formatted date based on the locale code.
  - Used `date_response` in the resource manager to collect dates.
- 2.17.0 (15 Aug 2022)
  - Added Aggregate Utilities
- 2.16.0 (14 Aug 2022)
  - Added `date` and `date:between` filters to `FILTER_BY` repository constant.
- 2.15.0 (12 Aug 2022)
  - Added `carbonImmutable` feature to change the `now` function into immutable carbon instance.
- 2.14.0 (10 Aug 2022)
  - Added `LOCATION_DATA` constant to resource manager to return proper geo location data.
- 2.12.0 (26 July 2022)
  - Added `LOCALIZED_COLLECTABLE_DATA` constant to resource manager to localize data that are in array list.
- 2.11.0 (23 July 2022)
  - Now `WHEN_AVAILABLE` in resource manager if set to `true`, it will strip out any missing value from the model so the resource will only return existing data without any default values for any missing data.
- 2.1.21 (28 Feb 2022)
  - Fixed Multiple Trait Methods Alias
- 2.1.20 (28 Feb 2022)
  - Fixed Missing Semi Colon
- 2.1.19 (28 Feb 2022)
  - Fixed `Model`, `Resource` and `Filter` in the repository while creating child module to receive the child module name instead of the parent module.
- 2.1.17 (28 Feb 2022)
  - Added `Translatable` trait.
- 2.1.14 (28 Feb 2022)
  - Fixed generated `database` directory to be `Database`.

# Documentation

See full documentation in the [wiki page](https://github.com/hassanzohdy/mongez/wiki).

Commit message:

Replaced dates with casts property in generated model

README.md, after:

﻿# Mongez

This project aims to make using Laravel framework more organized and extensible.

## Table of contents

- [Mongez](#mongez)
- [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Configurations](#configurations)
  - [Translatable](#translatable)
  - [Change Log](#change-log)
- [Documentation](#documentation)

## Requirements

- Laravel `>=5.6`

## Installation

Run the following Command in your cli.

`composer require hassanzohdy/mongez`

## Configurations

Once its done run the following command to create the `config/mongez.php` file.

`php artisan vendor:publish --provider="HZ\Illuminate\Mongez\Providers\MongezServiceProvider"`

## Translatable

```php
<?php 
use HZ\Illuminate\Mongez\Translation\Traits\Translatable;

class MyClass 
{
  use Translatable;

  public function index()
  {
    $this->transUsers('users.name'); // will translate from `Users` module and `users` file and the keyword is `name
    $this->transUsers('usersGroups.permissions'); // will translate from `Users` module and `usersGroups` file and the keyword is `permissions
  }
}
```

## Change Log

- 2.23.5 (23 Oct 2022)
  - Now generated model will have `casts` property instead of `dates` for date casting.
- 2.23.4 (22 Oct 2022)
  - Fixed defining the class namespace of `UTCDateTime` in `functions.php` file.
- 2.23.3 (22 Oct 2022)
  - Fixed collectables to return proper array syntax instead of objects.
- 2.22.2 (28 Aug 2022)
  - Fixed `ARRAYABLE_DATA` on listing as it is encoded to json.
- 2.22.1 (28 Aug 2022)
  - `RepositoryManager.wrapMany` will return empty array without passing the collection to the resource if teh given array|collection is empty.
- 2.22.0 (28 Aug 2022)
  - `config/mongez.php` config
  - Changed `misc` key to `date`.
  - Changed `CarbonImmutable` to `immutable` under `date` key.
  - Added `week_starts_at` and defaults to `Saturday`.
  - Added `week_ends_at` and defaults to `Friday`.
- 2.21.0 (27 Aug 2022)
  - Added `getPaginationInfo` in the repository manager.
  - `getPaginateInfo` now is deprecated and will be removed in **V3.0**.
  - Added `first` method to return the first matched element, takes the same array options as `listModels` and return one model.
- 2.20.0 (27 Aug 2022)
  - Added `saveActionType` property to the repository, it can be used in `setData`, and its value will depend on the current action, `static::CREATE_ACTION` | `static::UPDATE_ACTION` | `static::PATCH_ACTION`.
- 2.18.0 (17 Aug 2022)
  - Added `date_response` to format the given date to `timestamp` `humanTime` `text` and `format` outputs.
  - Added `localized_date` to convert the given date into formatted date based on the locale code.
  - Used `date_response` in the resource manager to collect dates.
- 2.17.0 (15 Aug 2022)
  - Added Aggregate Utilities
- 2.16.0 (14 Aug 2022)
  - Added `date` and `date:between` filters to `FILTER_BY` repository constant.
- 2.15.0 (12 Aug 2022)
  - Added `carbonImmutable` feature to change the `now` function into immutable carbon instance.
- 2.14.0 (10 Aug 2022)
  - Added `LOCATION_DATA` constant to resource manager to return proper geo location data.
- 2.12.0 (26 July 2022)
  - Added `LOCALIZED_COLLECTABLE_DATA` constant to resource manager to localize data that are in array list.
- 2.11.0 (23 July 2022)
  - Now `WHEN_AVAILABLE` in resource manager if set to `true`, it will strip out any missing value from the model so the resource will only return existing data without any default values for any missing data.
- 2.1.21 (28 Feb 2022)
  - Fixed Multiple Trait Methods Alias
- 2.1.20 (28 Feb 2022)
  - Fixed Missing Semi Colon
- 2.1.19 (28 Feb 2022)
  - Fixed `Model`, `Resource` and `Filter` in the repository while creating child module to receive the child module name instead of the parent module.
- 2.1.17 (28 Feb 2022)
  - Added `Translatable` trait.
- 2.1.14 (28 Feb 2022)
  - Fixed generated `database` directory to be `Database`.

## Documentation

See full documentation in the [wiki page](https://github.com/hassanzohdy/mongez/wiki).
